--- Page 1 ---
Accept Contract
Agent icon: Spice Trade
Draw a card. If playing with the CHOAM 
Module, take a contract. If there are none 
remaining, or if you are playing without the 
CHOAM Module, gain 2 Solari instead.
Arrakeen
Agent icon: City
Combat space
Recruit a troop and draw a card. Arrakeen’s 
controller gains 1 Solari.
Assembly Hall
Agent icon: Landsraad
Draw an Intrigue card.
During your Reveal turn, gain 1 Persuasion 
if you have an Agent here.
Deep Desert
Agent icon: Spice Trade
Combat space
Cost: 3 water
Gain any bonus spice accumulated here on 
the Maker icon. Also choose either: gain 4 
spice; OR, if you have a Maker Hooks token, 
summon two sandworms.
Deliver Supplies
Agent icon: Spacing Guild
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Spacing Guild. 
Gain 1 water.
Desert Tactics
Agent icon: Fremen 
Combat space
Cost: 1 water
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Fremen. 
Recruit one troop and trash a card.
Dutiful Service
Agent icon: Emperor
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Emperor. 
If playing with the CHOAM Module, take 
a contract. If there are none remaining, 
or if you are playing without the CHOAM 
Module, gain 2 Solari instead.
Espionage
Agent icon: Bene Gesserit
Cost: 1 spice
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Bene Gesserit. 
Draw a card and place a Spy.
Fremkit
Agent icon: Fremen
Combat space
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Fremen. Draw 
a card.
Gather Support
Agent icon: Landsraad
Cost: Choose either 0 or 2 Solari 
Recruit two troops. If you paid 2 Solari, also 
gain 1 water.
Each board space is explained here, in alphabetical order.
Combat spaces are labeled. (Remember: on the game board, they are the spaces that feature desert illustrations and crossed swords.) When 
you send an Agent to a Combat space, you may deploy to the Conﬂ ict any number of units you recruit this turn (including any recruited by 
the card you played). In addition, you may deploy up to two more units from your garrison.
There are additional spaces in the six-player game. See the back of that rules supplement for details.
BOARD SPACE GUIDE

--- Page 2 ---
Hagga Basin
Agent icon: Spice Trade
Combat space
Cost: 1 water
Gain any bonus spice accumulated here on 
the Maker icon. Also choose either: gain 2 
spice; OR, if you have a Maker Hooks token, 
summon a sandworm.
Heighliner
Agent icon: Spacing Guild 
Combat space
Cost: 5 spice 
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Spacing Guild. 
Recruit ﬁ ve troops.
High Council
Agent icon: Landsraad
Cost: 5 Solari
The ﬁ rst time you send an Agent here: Place your Councilor 
token on an unoccupied Council seat (to the right of the space). 
For the rest of the game, during each of your Reveal turns, gain 
2 Persuasion.
Each subsequent time you send an Agent here: Gain 2 spice, draw 
an Intrigue card, and recruit three troops.
Imperial Basin
Agent icon: Spice Trade
Combat space
Gain 1 spice, plus any bonus spice 
accumulated here on the Maker icon. 
Imperial Basin’s controller gains 1 spice.
Imperial Privilege
Agent icon: Landsraad
Requirement: You must have 2 or more 
Inﬂ uence with the Emperor.
Cost: 3 Solari
You may discard an Intrigue card to draw 
an Intrigue card. Recall one of your other
Agents from the board, and draw a card.
Research Station
Agent icon: City
Combat space
Cost: 2 water
Recruit two troops and draw two cards.
Sardaukar
Agent icon: Emperor
Cost: 4 spice (3 spice in a six-player game)
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Emperor. Draw 
an Intrigue card and recruit four troops.
Secrets
Agent icon: Bene Gesserit
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Bene Gesserit. 
Draw an Intrigue card. Each opponent who 
has four or more Intrigue cards must give 
you one of them (selected at random).
Shipping
Agent icon: Spice Trade
Requirement: You must have 2 or more 
Inﬂ uence with the Spacing Guild.
Cost: 3 spice
Gain 5 Solari and gain one Inﬂ uence with 
any Faction.
Sietch Tabr
Agent icon: City
Combat space
Requirement: You must have 2 or more 
Inﬂ uence with the Fremen.
Choose either: take a Maker Hooks token 
(if you don’t already have one), recruit one 
troop, and gain 1 water —OR— gain 1 water 
and you may remove the Shield Wall token 
from the game board.
Spice Reﬁ nery
Agent icon: City
Combat space
Cost: Choose either 0 or 1 spice 
Gain 2 Solari, or 4 Solari if you paid 1 spice.  
Spice Reﬁ nery’s controller gains 1 Solari.
Swordmaster
Agent icon: Landsraad
Cost: 8 Solari if no player has their 
Swordmaster; 6 Solari once any player does.
You may send an Agent here only once per 
game. Gain your Swordmaster (your third 
Agent that was placed next to the board 
during setup). Place it on your Leader. For 
the rest of the game (including this round) 
you have three Agents.
This space works diﬀ erently in a six-player game. See the back of 
the Six-Player Games rules supplement for details.

--- Page 3 ---
A game for one or two players uses additional 
cards to control automated opponents (hereafter 
referred to as “Rivals”), who compete against you by 
occupying board spaces and contesting Conﬂ icts. 
Each Rival is represented by a Rival card that details 
their strategic priorities, and uses House Hagal cards 
to direct the placement of their Agents. If a Rival 
reaches 10 or more Victory Points, they trigger the 
end of the game—and they may defeat you!
RIVALS — SOLO & TWO-PLAYER GAMES
RIVAL CARDS
A
Name
B
Swordmaster value
The lower the value, the more challenging the Rival.
C
Signet Ring ability
D
Scheme ability
E
Factions
A list of the four Factions in an order (from left to 
right) that represents how the Rival prioritizes 
political relationships.
A
B
C
D
E
Select Rival cards according to the number of players.
Solo game: Choose two Rival cards as your opponents. (For your ﬁ rst solo game, 
Rivals with Swordmaster values of 8 or higher are recommended.) Select a 
diﬃ  culty level (from the options at the right), and adjust your setup accordingly. 
Two-player game: Choose one Rival card as a shared opponent. (For your ﬁ rst 
two-player game, the Streamlined Rivals variant on the back cover of this rules 
supplement is recommended.) 
For each Rival, choose a color. Place one of its cubes on each of the bottom spaces of 
the Inﬂ uence tracks of the four Factions. Put three troops in its garrison (except for a 
solo Mercenary game), and the rest in its supply. Place two of its Agents in its supply, 
and set its Swordmaster (third Agent) next to the game board (as you would for any 
other player). Place its three Spies and 1 water in its supply.
Shuﬄ  e the House Hagal deck and place it near the Rival(s). (For a solo game, remove 
the “Reshuﬄ  e” card—marked with “2P”—from the House Hagal deck before shuﬄ  ing.)
Distribute Objective cards according to the number of players:
Solo game: You and your Rivals each start with an Objective card, distributed randomly as in a multiplayer game.
Two-player game: Give the Ornithopter Objective to the Rival and randomly distribute the other two. (The Rival in a two-player game 
never has the First Player marker.)
SETUP
Diﬃ  culty
There are four diﬃ  culty levels for a solo game:
Mercenary (Novice): Your Rivals start with no 
troops in their garrisons, and you start with an 
Intrigue card.
Sardaukar (Veteran): No special adjustments.
Mentat (Expert): The same as Sardaukar. Use 
the Brutal Escalation, Expert Deployment, and 
Smart Politics rules described in Game Variants 
(on the back cover of this rules supplement).
Kwisatz Haderach (Expert+): The same as 
Mentat. Also, you can’t gain a Swordmaster 
during the game.
end of the game—and they may defeat you!
SETUP
ADDITIONAL GAME COMPONENTS
37 House Hagal cards
10 Rival cards

--- Page 4 ---
 RIVAL AGENT TURNS
During Phase 2: Player Turns, Rivals take Agent turns like any other player. A Rival will take an Agent turn as long as it has at least one Agent 
in its supply, but it will never take a Reveal turn.
Solo game: The First Player marker is passed clockwise as usual from round to round, and Rivals will sometimes possess the marker and 
act ﬁ rst.
Two-player game: The First Player marker passes back and forth only between the two human players. The Rival is always considered to 
be seated clockwise from the player with the First Player marker (thus, acting each round between the two other players).
When a Rival takes an Agent turn, reveal the top card of the House Hagal deck. That card will send an Agent to the revealed 
board space, as long as that space is unoccupied. If the space is occupied, ignore the card and continue revealing cards until 
you reveal an unoccupied space.
If the House Hagal deck is ever empty (or if the Reshuﬄ  e card is revealed), immediately reshuﬄ  e the House Hagal cards to form a new deck.
When a Rival sends an Agent to a board space, ignore all normal costs and eﬀ ects of that space. Instead, it gets only the eﬀ ects indicated on 
its revealed card:
The Rival advances on the indicated 
Inﬂ uence track.
The Rival gains one Inﬂ uence with the 
Faction corresponding to the number, as 
indicated on the bottom of the Rival card.
2
The Rival gains the indicated resource.
The Rival uses the Signet Ring ability on its Rival card.
The Rival recruits one troop from its supply for each 
such icon. If the revealed card is a Combat space, deploy 
them to the Conﬂ ict. Otherwise, put the troops in its 
garrison.
Each opponent who has four or more Intrigue cards 
must give one of them (selected at random) to the 
Rival.
The Rival places a Spy on an observation post. Unless a 
type of space is speciﬁ ed, it tries to do so on a Faction 
observation post in the ﬁ rst available Faction on its 
Faction priority list. If all four Faction observations posts 
are full, ignore this eﬀ ect.
The three Place Spy House Hagal cards each show a particular 
type of observation post for placing the Spy. If there are no 
empty observation posts of the designated type, ignore this 
eﬀ ect. Then, because Place Spy cards do not send an Agent to 
a board space, reveal another House Hagal card for the Rival 
(whether it placed a Spy or not).
The Rival acquires a Maker Hooks token and places it on 
its garrison (if it has not already done so).
If the Rival has a Maker Hooks token and the Shield Wall 
token is still on the board, remove it. (Ignore this eﬀ ect if 
the Rival does not have Maker Hooks.)
Any time a Rival sends an Agent to a Combat space, it also deploys up to two troops from its garrison (if available) to the Conﬂ ict. Do this 
even if the card itself recruited no troops (for example: a card sending an Agent to a Maker board space).
Rivals gain and lose Alliance tokens as players do. However, they don’t earn Faction bonuses (for reaching 4 Inﬂ uence on an Inﬂ uence track).
Special Instructions
Some House Hagal cards direct a Rival to send an Agent to one of two spaces, depending on game conditions.
When a Rival reveals Accept Contract / Shipping, check how much Influence it has with the Spacing Guild. When a Rival reveals 
Deliver Supplies / Heighliner, check if the current Conflict card is a I, II, or III card. In each case, send an Agent to the board space 
indicated on the card.
Other cards provide a bonus to a Rival who has 2 or more Inﬂ uence with a speciﬁ ed Faction. (Though the Rival 
will send an Agent to the space whether it gets the bonus or not.)
When a Rival reveals this Gather Support card, it sends an Agent to that space and recruits one troop. Then, if it has 2 or more 
Influence with the Emperor, it gains 1 Influence with the Faction listed second in priority on its Rival card.
2

--- Page 5 ---
RIVAL RESOURCE USE
Rivals collect resources (Solari, spice, Intrigue cards, and water) from House 
Hagal cards and as rewards from Conﬂ icts. Rivals don’t collect resources from 
board spaces, nor from the bonuses on Inﬂ uence tracks.
A Rival will ﬁ rst accumulate resources to gain a Swordmaster. As soon as it 
has a number of total resources equal to its Swordmaster value, it spends 
those resources to gain its Swordmaster. If it has more than enough resources 
for its Swordmaster, it will ﬁ rst spend Solari, then spice, then Intrigue cards, 
then water (keeping any leftovers).
MAKER SPACES AND 
SUMMONING SANDWORMS
If the revealed House Hagal card would send an Agent to a 
Maker board space (Deep Desert, Hagga Basin, or Imperial 
Basin), follow the instructions on the card. When sending 
an Agent to such a space, a Rival always gains the bonus 
spice there. What it does next depends on whether it has a 
Maker Hooks token:
• 
When the Rival sends an Agent to Hagga Basin or Deep Desert, if it has 
a Maker Hooks token, it summons sandworms if they can be deployed 
to the current Conﬂ ict—one for Hagga Basin, or two for Deep Desert.
• 
If the Rival doesn’t summon any sandworms, it instead gains the base 
spice from that board space.
Buying Victory Points
Once a Rival has its Swordmaster, it begins 
spending its resources to earn Victory Points. 
Whenever a Rival has the indicated resources, it 
will spend them as follows:
7
7
3
When Phase 3: Combat begins, each Rival that has at least one unit in the Conﬂ ict gets a Combat bonus. In turn order, reveal the top card 
of the House Hagal deck. (If you reveal the Reshuﬄ  e card, follow the instructions to reshuﬄ  e the deck and reveal again.) Ignore everything 
on the revealed card except for the sword icons at the bottom. Advance the Rival’s Combat marker on the Combat track by the number of 
swords revealed. Players may then play Combat Intrigue cards before resolving Combat. 
Rivals collect rewards from Conﬂ ict cards like other players do, including doubled rewards if they have at least one sandworm in the Conﬂ ict. 
If they win a Conﬂ ict, they take the Conﬂ ict card and can earn a Victory Point from matching battle icons (ﬂ ipping the cards face-down as any 
player would).
Rivals can win Control of board spaces, placing a Control marker on the ﬂ ag below it. On future turns, they get the Control bonus whenever 
you or a Rival sends an Agent there. They also receive the defensive bonus of one troop if a Conﬂ ict over that board space is later revealed.
Whenever a Rival has a choice about gaining Inﬂ uence, it chooses the Faction in which it has the least. In the case of a tie, use the Faction 
priority list at the bottom of the Rival card to break the tie: use the leftmost icon among the tied Factions.
Whenever a Rival has the option to gain a Victory Point from a Conﬂ ict card, it will always do so if it has the necessary resources (or Spies to 
recall, in the case of Battle for Arrakeen).
Rivals never take contracts. Whenever a Rival earns a 
 reward from a Conﬂ ict, it gains 2 Solari instead, whether or not you are playing 
with the CHOAM module.
COMBAT
SCHEMES
Rivals do not recall 
their Spies to 
Inﬁ ltrate or Gather 
Intelligence. Instead, whenever a Rival 
places the third and ﬁ nal Spy from its 
supply, immediately recall the Rival’s 
other two Spies and trigger the 
Scheme ability on the Rival’s card.
A House Hagal card may cause a Rival to trigger its 
Scheme on its turn before it has sent an Agent to a board 
space. If its Scheme recruits troops, and the Rival then 
sends an Agent to a Combat space on that same turn, it 
deploys those troops from its Scheme to the Conﬂ ict.
t i
it

--- Page 6 ---
GAME VARIANTS
If you choose, you may add these optional rules to Rival behavior.
These three variants are required when playing on Mentat (Expert) diﬃ  culty or higher, but you may use them in other games if you wish.
Smart Politics
For veteran players who want Rivals to be more 
challenging in the political arena.
Whenever a Rival reveals a card that would send an 
Agent to one of the Faction board spaces that has 
no cost (Dutiful Service, Deliver Supplies, Secrets, or 
Fremkit), it will ignore that card and reveal again under 
either of the following conditions:
• 
It already has an Alliance with that Faction and is 
leading all other players by at least 1 Inﬂ uence.
• 
It already has 2 or more Inﬂ uence with that 
Faction and is at least 2 Inﬂ uence behind the 
leader on that Inﬂ uence track.
Brutal Escalation
For veteran players 
who want Rivals to be 
more challenging in 
late-game Conﬂ icts.
Whenever a Rival is 
competing in a Conﬂ ict III 
combat, ﬂ ip two cards from 
the House Hagal deck and 
add all the swords from 
both cards to its strength.
Expert Deployment
This variant makes your Rivals 
more selective about deploying 
to the Conﬂ ict.
When ﬁ ghting for a Conﬂ ict I or II 
card, a Rival won’t deploy troops if 
it is already leading by three units or 
more. For a critical Conﬂ ict III card, 
a Rival will resume deploying all the 
troops it can at every opportunity.
A Rival will always summon any 
sandworms it can before checking to 
see whether to deploy troops.
Streamlined Rivals
(for Two-Player Games)
Recommended for players who want to focus on a 
head-to-head experience.
Two Rival cards are not capable of winning the game: 
Lady Amber Metulli and Glossu “The Beast” Rabban. 
Once they gain their Swordmaster, they become faster for 
players to manage, speeding up the game.
After gaining their Swordmaster, whenever Lady Amber or 
the Beast would take bonus spice from the board, put it in 
the bank instead.
Dice-Based Imperium Row “Churn”
(for Solo Games)
If you have two standard 6-sided dice available, 
this variant simulates the acquiring of cards 
from the Imperium Row by your Rivals.
At the end of each of your Reveal turns, roll the two 
dice. Counting cards starting from the left of the 
Imperium Row, remove any card corresponding to 
the numbers you rolled. Ignore any 6 that you roll, 
removing no card. If you roll the same result (from 1 
to 5) on both dice, remove only one card.
COMBINING UPRISING WITH RISE OF IX AND IMMORTALITY
If you are adding the RISE OF IX or IMMORTALITY expansions to your solo or two-player game, you should not combine all House Hagal cards 
from the expansion with all House Hagal cards from UPRISING. We recommend:
RISE OF IX: Remove these 5 UPRISING cards: Accept Contract/Shipping (2 copies), Gather Support (2 copies), and Assembly Hall. From 
RISE OF IX, remove the Foldspace/Interstellar Shipping card, along with all cards not for your number of players. (If you wish, you may keep 
the Foldspace/Interstellar Shipping card, and have a Rival send an Agent to “Deliver Supplies” whenever it would try to go to “Foldspace.”)
IMMORTALITY: There are no changes for a two-player game (as all of the IMMORTALITY cards are marked “1P”). For a solo game, remove 1 
copy of the UPRISING version of Research Station and include all 4 IMMORTALITY cards. Whenever you reveal a Carthag card for a Rival’s 
Agent turn, it ignores the board space and the troop icon, but does everything else on the card; you then reveal another card to determine 
where the Rival sends its Agent.

--- Page 7 ---
A mysterious leader on Arrakis called Muad’Dib wages war from the deep desert and poses a threat to the supply of the most valuable substance in the Universe: 
spice. And unbeknownst to the Emperor, Muad’Dib is making a play at the Golden Lion Throne itself!
In a six-player game, players form two teams of three, each led by a Commander: Muad’Dib or Shaddam Corrino IV. Four other leaders pair 
up to become Allies of their respective Commanders.
Each player has their own Score marker, and the Endgame is triggered the same as in a regular game. A team’s score is determined by 
adding together the individual scores of each player on the team.
Commanders don’t have their own armies and can’t win Conﬂ ict rewards. However, they can still recruit units! Anytime they would gain a 
unit, they’ll recruit it for one of their Allies. In addition, each Ally ﬁ ghts in a Conﬂ ict separately; you don’t add together the strength of the 
two Allies on the same team. In this way, all three rewards on each Conﬂ ict card are up for grabs and are given out to individual Allies. If your 
team grabs both the ﬁ rst and second place rewards for a Conﬂ ict, that could be quite the accomplishment. However, teammates may wish to 
strategize about who is going for the Conﬂ ict’s main prize, and who might ﬁ ght for the scraps!
SIX-PLAYER GAMES
6 Swordmaster Bonus tokens
2 Alliance tokens
Great Houses and 
Fringe Worlds
Two 10-card starting decks
Emperor player:
Convincing Argument, 
Corrino Might, Critical 
Shipments, Demand 
Results, Devastating 
Assault, Imperial 
Ornithopter (2), Imperial 
Tent, Seek Allies, Signet 
Ring
Muad’Dib player:
Command Respect,  
Convincing Argument, 
Demand Attention, 
Desert Call, Limited 
Landsraad Access (2), 
Seek Allies, Signet 
Ring, Threaten Spice 
Production, Usul
ADDITIONAL GAME COMPONENTS
2 Personal boards
Emperor for the Shaddam player
Fremen for the Muad’Dib player
2 Personal boards
ADDITIONAL PLAYER 
COMPONENTS
The above components come in light blue 
for the Muad’Dib player (as shown) and 
gray for the Shaddam player (not shown).
3 Agent tokens
3 Spies
2 discs
1 Score marker
1 Councilor token
Faction cube

--- Page 8 ---
SETUP
Players select leaders and teams before taking seats at the 
table. The Commanders sit opposite each other, Muad’Dib 
at the bottom of the game board (“on Arrakis”) and 
Shaddam at the top of the game board (“at the Landsraad”). 
Allies then sit on either side of the opposing leader, so that 
the clockwise order of play alternates from one team to 
the other.
Then, add to or modify the regular setup steps as noted:
A
Use the reverse side of the game board. It has 
several changes, most notably that the Emperor 
and Fremen Factions are replaced by the Great 
Houses and Fringe Worlds Factions.
Each Commander takes one personal 
board and places it in front of them 
near their Leader card; Muad’Dib 
takes the Fremen board and Shaddam 
takes the Emperor board.
Place all six Alliance tokens on their 
corresponding tracks. (The Fremen and 
Emperor Alliance tokens are placed on 
the personal boards of their respective 
Commanders.)
B
When creating the Conﬂ ict deck, do 
not use any Conﬂ ict I cards. The deck 
should contain only ﬁ ve Conﬂ ict II 
cards on top of the four shuﬄ  ed 
Conﬂ ict III cards, meaning that the 
game will last a maximum of 9 rounds.
H
Only Ally players draw Objective cards. If both 
Desert Mouse Objectives are drawn by the same 
team, the player with the 4/6P Desert Mouse 
Objective trades it with the opposing Ally sitting 
next to them, so that each team has one Desert 
Mouse Objective and one Crysknife Objective.
2
For the most authentic story experience, we recommend that 
diﬀ erent Leaders be assigned to teams as noted below. However, feel 
free to try out various combinations and “What If?” scenarios. (Any 
Leaders from previous DUNE: IMPERIUM products can also be used.)
Recommended Allies of 
Muad’Dib:
Gurney Halleck
Lady Jessica
Staban Tuek
Recommended Allies of 
Shaddam Corrino IV:
Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen
Lady Margot Fenring
Princess Irulan
Leader Who Could Be 
on Either Side:
Lady Amber Metulli
2
E
Muad’Dib and Shaddam take their 
respective Commander starting 
decks instead of a standard 
starting deck.
Muad’Dib and Shaddam take their
C
The CHOAM module must be used. 
(See page 16 of the main rulebook.) 
Add the marked Imperium and 
Intrigue cards to those decks. Before shuﬄ  ing 
the contracts, set aside the two Sardaukar 
contracts as described on the Shaddam Corrino 
IV Leader.
h ﬄi
H
Only Ally players draw Objective cards. If both
G
Commanders (Shaddam and Muad’Dib) don’t receive all the 
personal components that Allies do. They don’t have troops, 
Combat markers, Control markers, or normal Agents. They do 
receive Spy tokens and two discs.
G1
Instead of normal Agents, Commanders 
receive a set of three Agent tokens. 
They start with the two Agent tokens with 
one directional arrow and put the token 
with two directional arrows (their 
Swordmaster) aside with the other 
Swordmasters.
Also, place all the Swordmaster Bonus tokens with 
the Swordmasters, next to the game board.
G2
The Commanders place one disc on 
the “4” space of the Score track (marked with 
“C”). Each Ally places one disc on the “1” space 
(marked with “A”).
G4
Allies place one Faction cube on the bottom space of 
each Inﬂ uence track on the game board as usual. They 
do not place a Faction cube on either Commander’s 
personal board.
The Commanders each place their one Faction cube 
on the bottom space of the Inﬂ uence track on the 
personal board in front of them.

--- Page 9 ---
3
ACTIVATING ALLIES
Commanders generally use cards and board spaces just like any other player. 
However, Commanders have no troops to recruit or deploy to the Conﬂ ict, and 
no cubes on the four Inﬂ uence tracks on the game board. Instead, during each 
of their turns, they activate one of their Allies, who receives any eﬀ ects the 
Commander can’t use directly.
On an Agent turn, the activated Ally is determined by the arrow 
on the Agent token the Commander uses: either the Ally seated to 
their left or right (past their immediately adjacent enemy). When 
using the Swordmaster token, they choose which Ally to activate 
for that turn.
On a Reveal turn, the Commander chooses which Ally to activate.
The activated Ally takes the Commander’s place whenever:
Any Inﬂ uence is gained or lost on an Inﬂ uence track 
on the game board.
Any units are recruited, and any choice about deploying them 
to the Conﬂ ict is to be made.
Any swords are being applied to strength.
Muad’Dib sends an Agent to Hardy Warriors, spending 1 water and 
activating his Ally, Lady Jessica. Muad’Dib’s Faction cube on the Fremen 
Influence track moves up and Lady Jessica recruits two troops. Hardy 
Warriors is a Combat space, so Lady Jessica may deploy any of these 
troops to the Conflict, plus up to two more from her garrison.
On a later turn, Shaddam sends an Agent to Espionage, spending 
1 spice and activating Feyd-Rautha. Feyd-Rautha already had 
3 Influence with the Bene Gesserit and now gains one more, moving 
up to take the Alliance and the Intrigue card Faction bonus. Note that 
Feyd-Rautha draws the Intrigue card from the bonus because it was 
Feyd-Rautha’s Faction cube that reached the bonus.
If, during a Commander’s Reveal turn, they activate an Ally who hasn’t yet taken 
their own Reveal turn, they may still give swords to that Ally. The Ally marks their 
strength now, then adds to it later when they take their own Reveal turn (or sets 
their strength to 0 if they have no units in the Conﬂ ict at that time).
A Commander can cause an activated Ally to deploy or retreat troops even 
after that Ally takes their Reveal turn. The Ally adjusts their Combat marker 
accordingly. This can allow an Ally to enter a Conﬂ ict they weren’t a part of 
during their own Reveal turn—but in this case, any swords that Ally generated 
during that Reveal turn are lost to the lack of battleﬁ eld coordination.
NEW MAJOR CONCEPTS
PERSONAL BOARDS
Each Commander has a personal board with two 
spaces where only they may send an Agent. Each 
time they do, they advance their Faction cube 
along the Inﬂ uence track on the board. These 
Inﬂ uence tracks have bonuses like the tracks on 
the game board, but the bonuses beneﬁ t the 
Commander’s entire team.
Whenever Muad’Dib reaches 1 or 3 
Inﬂ uence on the Fremen Inﬂ uence 
track, everyone on the team gains the 
reward shown, 1 spice or 1 water.
Whenever Shaddam reaches 1 or 3 
Inﬂ uence on the Emperor Inﬂ uence 
track, everyone on the team gains the 
reward shown, 1 Solari or the 
opportunity to place a Spy.
Similarly, each personal board provides 
a Commander with a Victory Point when 
they reach 2 Inﬂ uence, and an Alliance 
(with its associated Victory Point) when 
they reach 4 Inﬂ uence.
Only Shaddam has Inﬂ uence with the Emperor 
Faction and only Muad’Dib has Inﬂ uence with 
the Fremen Faction. An Ally can never aﬀ ect the 
Inﬂ uence on their Commander’s personal board.
COMMUNICATION
While communication is encouraged, it is recommended that players on the same team cannot communicate privately with each other. 
This includes whispering plans, texting, ﬂ ashing a card to a teammate, etc. This rule tries to reﬂ ect the idea that there are spies across the 
Imperium watching your every move.
Some play groups may wish to institute diﬀ erent communication rules. You know your group best!

--- Page 10 ---
SHARED INFLUENCE AND NEW FACTIONS
While a Commander does not have Faction cubes on the four Inﬂ uence tracks on 
the game board, their Allies give them Inﬂ uence with those Factions. Whichever 
Ally has the most Inﬂ uence with a Faction on the game board gives their 
Commander the same amount of Inﬂ uence. This is true even 
while activating the other Ally.
Muad’Dib plays Prepare the Way and sends an Agent to Carthag, 
activating Gurney Halleck. Gurney Halleck only has 1 Influence with the 
Bene Gesserit. But because Lady Jessica—Muad’Dib’s other Ally—has 2 
Influence with the Bene Gesserit, Muad’Dib draws a card.
Because of the addition of two new Factions on the game board, two of the 
Faction icons now each relate to two diﬀ erent Factions. For the requirements or 
eﬀ ects of any board space or card:
All four Allies and Muad’Dib use the Great Houses Faction.
Shaddam chooses either the Great Houses or Emperor Faction.
All four Allies and Shaddam use the Fringe Worlds Faction.
Muad’Dib chooses either the Fringe Worlds or Fremen Faction.
When Gurney Halleck reveals Shishakli and gains the Fremen Bond 
effect, Gurney gains an Influence with the Fringe Worlds Faction. When 
Muad’Dib reveals Shishakli and gains the Fremen Bond effect, he 
either gains the Influence with the Fremen, moving up his own Faction 
cube on his personal board, or may gain this Influence with the Fringe 
Worlds, moving up his activated Ally’s Faction cube on the Fringe Worlds 
Influence track.
Shaddam sends an Agent to the Shipping board space, activating Feyd-Rautha. 
(To do this, at least one of Shaddam’s Allies must have at least 2 Influence with 
the Spacing Guild. It does not have to be Feyd-Rautha!) Shaddam gains 5 Solari 
and one Influence of his choice. Shaddam could move up one of Feyd-Rautha’s Faction 
cubes, but instead chooses to gain one Influence on his personal Emperor Influence track.
NEW MAJOR CONCEPTS  (CONTINUED)
SHARED UNIT OWNERSHIP
All units and garrisons owned by an activated Ally 
are also owned by that team’s Commander. This 
sharing allows certain cards to be activated on a 
Commander’s turn.
When a Commander plays Chani, 
Clever Tactician on an Agent turn, they 
draw an Intrigue card if their activated 
Ally has three or more units in the 
Conflict. When they play Chani on a 
Reveal turn, they may retreat two of 
their activated Ally’s troops to give four 
swords to that Ally.
When a Commander recruits units for an 
activated Ally, the Commander and the Ally are 
each considered to have recruited those units. 
Similarly, when units are deployed to the Conﬂ ict 
on a Commander’s turn, the Commander and 
the activated Ally are both considered to have 
deployed those units.
Muad’Dib sends an Agent to Hardy 
Warriors, activating Gurney Halleck 
and recruiting two troops for Gurney 
Halleck. Gurney decides to commit 
these troops plus two more from his 
garrison to the Conflict. Muad’Dib may 
play Distraction because he shared in 
the deployment of these units.
Note, however, that Conﬂ ict cards won by Allies are 
not co-owned by Commanders.
4
 PLAYER TURNS
The Great Houses Faction features two new icons that can be used by teammates to help one another.
Reinforce. Recruit three troops, divided as you 
choose between the two Allies on your team. 
Any of these troops may be deployed to the 
Conﬂ ict.
Lady Jessica sends an Agent to Military Support. She chooses to 
recruit one of her own troops and puts it in her garrison, and she 
allows Gurney to recruit two of his troops. Gurney deploys both 
troops to the Conflict. Because Military Support is not a Combat 
space, Gurney may not deploy any more troops this turn.
Trade. Choose one teammate to trade with: each of you may give 
the other 1 or more of a single type of “trade good” (Intrigue cards, 
spice, water, or Solari). Either (or both) of you may decide to give 
nothing instead.
Princess Irulan sends an Agent to Economic Support, gains 1 spice, and chooses to trade 
with Shaddam. Irulan gives Shaddam two of her Intrigue cards, keeping one. Shaddam 
decides to give Irulan all 3 of his spice.
Later, Muad’Dib plays Command Respect. Having earned his Swordmaster, Muad’Dib 
chooses to trash the card to trade with Lady Jessica. Muad’Dib gives her an Intrigue card. 
Lady Jessica is low on resources and decides not to trade anything to Muad’Dib.
ti

--- Page 11 ---
5
 PLAYER TURNS  (CONTINUED)
 PHASE 3: COMBAT
The Endgame is triggered during the Recall phase as usual: if any player has 10 or more Victory Points on the Score track, or if the Conﬂ ict 
deck is empty. Players ﬁ rst play any applicable Endgame Intrigue cards, then the team with the highest combined score is declared the 
winner. In the case of a tie, combine each team’s resources to check the usual tiebreakers against the other team.
Some Endgame Intrigue cards are useful for Commanders while others are not. Use of the trade icon is encouraged when a 
player holds an Endgame Intrigue card that would only be useful for a teammate!
• 
Crysknife, Desert Mouse, Ornithopter — A Commander can’t own any Conﬂ ict cards, thus can’t use these at Endgame.
• 
CHOAM Proﬁ ts, Secure Spice Trade, Shadow Alliance — These are possible sources of Victory Points for Commanders. 
For Shadow Alliance, remember that a Commander’s Inﬂ uence with a Faction is always the highest of their two Allies.
ENDGAME
COMBAT INTRIGUE CARDS
Players play Combat Intrigue cards in clockwise order as usual. On a 
Commander’s turn, they may play cards on behalf of an Ally who has 
at least one unit in the Conﬂ ict, then apply the eﬀ ects to that Ally. 
(A Commander can’t “split” one Combat Intrigue card between Allies.)
Muad’Dib plays Questionable Methods, activating Gurney 
Halleck. Muad’Dib chooses to have Gurney lose 1 Influence with 
the Fringe Worlds to gain a total of 5 swords. Muad’Dib cannot 
have his other Ally (who was not activated) lose the Influence, 
though he could have chosen to lose 1 Influence himself with 
the Fremen.
When Allies Tie
When two Allies on the same team tie in Combat, one 
of them may choose to concede the greater reward to 
the other. If they were tied for the third Conﬂ ict reward, 
the conceding player receives nothing.
Gurney Halleck and Lady Jessica tie for first place during a 
Conflict. Gurney Halleck concedes the win to Lady Jessica. 
Jessica takes the top reward (and is considered the winner of 
the Conflict). Gurney takes the second reward.
SWORDMASTERS
Each player’s Swordmaster Agent can be used only one time per game. 
At the end of a round, if you sent your Swordmaster to a board space, 
return it to the box. If you have your Swordmaster but do not send it 
to a board space during a round, you keep it and may use it in a future 
round.
When you earn your Swordmaster, you also earn a 
Swordmaster Bonus token which you keep for the rest of the 
game (even after using your Swordmaster itself). Place it on 
the game board. (Allies place it in their garrison. Commanders place it at 
the edge of the Conﬂ ict area, nearest to their side of the board.) Once 
you have a Swordmaster Bonus token on the board, add 2 swords 
whenever you take a Reveal turn.
Shaddam’s Throne Row
The Emperor’s personal board and Imperial 
Tent card allow Shaddam to move cards 
from the Imperium Row into a special 
Throne Row. When Shaddam does so, 
immediately replace that card with a new 
card from the Imperium Deck.
The cards in the Throne Row can only be 
acquired by Shaddam and his Allies (never by Muad’Dib or 
his Allies). These cards are no longer in the Imperium Row 
(and they can’t be aﬀ ected by cards like Manipulation). The 
size of the Throne Row is unlimited, and thus can build over 
several rounds if the cards are not acquired.

--- Page 12 ---
COMBINING WITH OTHER DUNE: IMPERIUM PRODUCTS
6
This section explains how to integrate previous DUNE: IMPERIUM
titles into your six-player game. We’ve tried to cover likely 
questions, but please note that these products were not originally 
designed with six-player games in mind. Some cases may still 
feel unusual or diﬃ  cult to adjudicate. If you encounter a situation 
that these rules don’t cover, ﬁ rst check the DUNE: IMPERIUM
FAQ (at www.duneimperium.com/FAQ).  If you’re in the middle 
of a game and need an answer now, let Shaddam adjudicate. 
Being Emperor of the Known Universe has some perks.
DUNE: IMPERIUM
• 
Demand Respect / To the Victor… — These are useless to Commanders. (Trade them!)
• 
Gun Thopter / Test of Humanity — Commanders don’t own troops during other players’ turns, so a 
Commander never loses a troop due to another player’s card. For Test of Humanity, a Commander must 
discard a card if they can.
• 
Kwisatz Haderach — This does not allow another player to send an Agent to a Commander’s personal board.
• 
Plans Within Plans — A Commander can choose to use their personal board instead of the game board’s 
Faction with the same icon.
• 
The Voice — You may choose a board space on a Commander’s personal board.
IMMORTALITY
Commanders do not add two copies of Experimentation to their decks (nor do they remove any cards).
Commanders don’t have a Research token on the Research track or a Tleilaxu token on the Tleilaxu track. Their 
activated Ally receives the beneﬁ ts (including any resulting bonuses) whenever they trigger a Research icon or 
gain a Tleilaxu icon.
A Commander has the same genetic markers as whichever of their Allies has advanced farthest on the Research 
track. This is true even while activating the other Ally. 
When a Commander generates a specimen, it comes from their activated Ally’s supply. A Commander can only spend the specimens of their 
activated Ally (when paying a specimen cost on a card, or acquiring a Tleilaxu card). 
If playing with the Go to 11 variant, Allies start at 0 Victory Points (instead of 1). Commanders, however, still start at 4 Victory Points.
• 
Shadowy Bargain — Commanders do not activate any Ally during the Endgame, so the Endgame eﬀ ect of this card provides them with 
nothing.
While UPRISING does not include any cards with “Lose a troop” 
cost or eﬀ ect, other DUNE: IMPERIUM products do. When a 
Commander triggers an eﬀ ect that includes such a cost, their 
activated Ally loses the troops.
Other DUNE: IMPERIUM products include cards and 
components that work “when you win a Conﬂ ict.” These eﬀ ects 
are unusable for Commanders because Commanders never win 
Conﬂ icts.

--- Page 13 ---
7
RISE OF IX
During the Setup, each player receives one special RISE OF IX contract. Shuﬄ  e the 
RISE OF IX contracts and deal two to each Ally. They each choose one to keep, then 
give the other to their Commander. The Commander keeps one of the two they’ve 
been given, then returns the other to the box.
If a Commander wants to place a Negotiator, they take a troop from their activated 
Ally’s supply. When a Commander can Acquire Tech, they may reduce the cost by 
using their activated Ally’s Negotiators.
Commanders don’t have Freighters on the Shipping track, but they can move their 
activated Ally’s Freighter. If a Commander recalls a Freighter, the activated Ally 
gains all of the resulting rewards. (However, both the Commander and the Ally are 
considered to have recruited any troops resulting from this.)
When a player triggers Dividends on the Shipping track, all other players gain 1 Solari. 
(The RISE OF IX rules say that “opponents” gain 1 Solari, but this will apply to your 
opponents and your teammates in a six-player game.)
Commanders don’t have dreadnoughts, but can commission dreadnoughts for their 
Allies (similar to how they recruit troops for their Allies).
Inﬁ ltration icons and similar eﬀ ects allow you to inﬁ ltrate board spaces with your 
teammates’ Agents in addition to those with enemy Agents.
• 
Chaumurky — If the game ends in a tie, the team that has Chaumurky wins.
• 
Memocorders — A Commander can choose to use their personal board instead 
of the game board’s Faction with the same icon.
• 
Spy Satellites — Because a Commander’s Inﬂ uence with a Faction is equal 
to the higher of their two Allies, the Endgame beneﬁ t of this Tech tile will be 
diﬃ  cult for them to collect. They may still spend spice and trash the Tech tile 
for a Victory Point.
Epic Game Mode
Combining RISE OF IX’s Epic Game Mode 
with UPRISING’s six-player game will take 
most groups over 3 hours to play, but will 
hopefully supply the epic experience that 
the name suggests!
Build the Conﬂ ict Deck as described 
in the Epic Game Mode rules (adding 
Economic Supremacy to your Conﬂ ict III 
cards, for 10 total Conﬂ ict cards).
You may choose whether or not to include 
the other Conﬂ ict cards from RISE OF IX. 
If you include them, some Conﬂ icts may 
not award the winner a battle icon.
Commanders do not add Control the 
Spice to their decks (nor do they remove 
any card). 
Each player draws an Intrigue card during 
Setup (including Commanders).

--- Page 14 ---
Muad’Dib starting card — A card with this icon is part 
of the starting deck for the Muad’Dib player.
Reinforce. Recruit three troops, divided as you choose 
between the two Allies on your team. Any of these 
troops may be deployed to the Conﬂ ict.
Shaddam starting card — A card with this icon is part 
of the starting deck for the Shaddam player.
Team reward. Each player on your team gains the 
reward shown: 1 Solari, 1 spice, 1 water, or placing a 
Spy.
Trade. Choose one teammate to trade with: each of 
you may give the other 1 or more of a single type of 
“trade good” (Intrigue cards, spice, water, or Solari).
ADDITIONAL ICONS
Carthag
Agent icon: City
Combat space
Recruit a troop and draw an Intrigue card.
Controversial Technology
Agent icon: Fremen 
Cost: 2 spice
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Fringe Worlds. 
Draw an Intrigue card, draw a card, and 
trash a card.
Desert Mastery
Agent icon: Fremen
Combat space
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Fremen. Draw a 
card and gain 1 spice.
Economic Support
Agent icon: Emperor
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Great Houses 
and gain 1 spice. Then, choose one 
teammate to trade with: each of you may 
give the other 1 or more of a single type of 
“trade good” (Intrigue cards, spice, water, 
or Solari).
Expedition
Agent icon: Fremen 
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Fringe Worlds. 
Take a contract (or, if there are none 
remaining, gain 2 Solari instead).
Habbanya Erg
Agent icon: Spice Trade
Combat space
Cost: 1 water
Gain 2 spice, plus any bonus spice 
accumulated here on the Maker icon. Draw 
a card.
Hardy Warriors
Agent icon: Fremen 
Combat space
Cost: 1 water
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Fremen. Recruit 
two troops.
Military Support
Agent icon: Emperor
Cost: 2 spice
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Great Houses. 
Recruit three troops, divided as you choose 
between the two Allies on your team. Any 
of these troops may be deployed to the 
Conﬂ ict.
Swordmaster
Agent icon: Landsraad
Cost: 8 Solari if no player has their 
Swordmaster; 6 Solari once any player does.
You may send an Agent here only once per 
game. Gain your Swordmaster for a single 
use only. Place a Swordmaster Bonus token 
on the board. For the rest of the game, 
during each of your Reveal turns, gain 2 
strength.
Vast Wealth
Agent icon: Emperor
Gain one Inﬂ uence with the Emperor. Gain 
3 Solari.
SIX-PLAYER BOARD SPACE GUIDE

